[DOCS] add replace yb-master docs (#4791)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/latest/troubleshoot/cluster/replace_master.md

---

> title: Replace failed master
> linkTitle: Replace failed master
> description: Replace failed master

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Replace a failed YB-Master
headerTitle: Replace a failed YB-Master
linkTitle: Replace a failed YB-Master
description: Steps to replace a failed YB-Master
```

aliases:
  - /troubleshoot/cluster/replace-master/
  - /latest/troubleshoot/cluster/replace-master/
menu:
  latest:

>     parent: troubleshoot-cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    identifier: replace-failed-master
    parent: troubleshoot-cluster
```

    weight: 831
isTocNested: true
showAsideToc: true
---

> Suppose you have a cluster running and now a yb-master has failed and needs to be replaced. The procedure to follow in this 
> scenario is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a failed YB-Master server in a YugabyteDB cluster that needs to be replaced, follow these steps:
```

> {{< note title="Note" >}}
> Assumptions:
> - An initial set of masters M1, M2, M3
> - We are removing M1
> - We want to add M4
> - We'll be using the default master RPC port of 7100
> {{< /note >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the steps below, the following scenario is used as an example:

- The cluster includes three `yb-master` servers: `M1`, `M2`, `M3`.
- `M1` has failed and needs to be replaced.
- `M4` is being added to replace `M1`.
- The default master RPC port is `7100`
```

> ## Start new master and add to cluster
> Start `M4` with `--master_addresses= (empty string)`, this will put the master in what we refer to as `ShellMode`.
> 
> Add the new master into the quorum using:
> ```bash
> ./yb-admin -master_addresses M1:7100,M2:7100,M3:7100 change_master_config ADD_SERVER M4 7100

Reviewer: ```suggestion

 1. Start the new (replacement) YB-Master server, setting the `--master_addresses` flag to an empty string (`""`). Using the empty string starts the server in shell mode`.
 
     ```sh
      $ ./bin/yb-master --master_addresses=""
    ```

2. Add the new YB-Master server into the existing cluster.

To add the new YB-Master server, run the [`yb-admin change_master_config ADD SERVER`](../../admin/cli/yb-admin/# command.

```sh
./bin/yb-admin -master_addresses M1:7100,M2:7100,M3:7100 change_master_config ADD_SERVER M4 7100
```

```

> ## Remove old master
> Remove the old master from the quorum using:
> ```bash
> ./yb-admin -master_addresses M1:7100,M2:7100,M3:7100,M4:7100 change_master_config REMOVE_SERVER M1 7100
> ```
> 
> Note: the master addresses needs to include all 4 masters, in case the new one is suddenly the master leader!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Remove the old YB-Master server from the cluster.

To remove the failed YB-Master server from the cluster, use the [`yb-admin change_master_config REMOVE SERVER`](../../admin/yb-admin/#change-master-config`) command.

```sh
./yb-admin -master_addresses M1:7100,M2:7100,M3:7100,M4:7100 change_master_config REMOVE_SERVER M1 7100
```
{{< note title="Note" >}}

Make sure to specify all YB-Master addresses which will prevent the new YB-Master server from unexpectedly becoming the leader.

{{< /note >}}
```

---
title: Replace a failed YB-Master
headerTitle: Replace a failed YB-Master
linkTitle: Replace a failed YB-Master
description: Steps to replace a failed YB-Master in a YugabyteDB cluster.
aliases:
  - /troubleshoot/cluster/replace-master/
  - /latest/troubleshoot/cluster/replace-master/
menu:
  latest:
    identifier: replace-failed-master
    parent: troubleshoot-cluster
    weight: 831
isTocNested: true
showAsideToc: true
---

To replace a failed YB-Master server in a YugabyteDB cluster, follow these steps:

For the steps below, the examples use the following scenario:

- The cluster includes three `yb-master` servers: `M1`, `M2`, `M3`.
- YB-Master server `M1` failed and needs to be replaced.
- A new YB-Master server (`M4`) will replace `M1`.
- The default master RPC port is `7100`

> 1. Start the new (replacement) YB-Master server in standby mode. 

Reviewer 2: I recall we had a conversation about this, but did we agree to go with `standby` as the naming for this state, publicly?

Author: Do you mean `replacement` -> `standby` ?

To start `yb-master` in standby mode, set the `--master_addresses` flag to an empty string (`""`).

```sh

> ./bin/yb-master --master_addresses=""

Reviewer 2: not sure if this might end up being confusing to users, if they already have a bunch of other necessary flags, like placement options, fs_data_dirs, etc

I wouldn't want folks to assume this is all the flags they need to bring the master up, but I'm not sure how we're handling that in other sections?

Author: Reworded like it's explained here: https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/manage/change-cluster-config/#2-start-yb-master-servers

Reviewer 2: IMO, now it's actually a bit more confusing, as we're talking about the flag being set to empty string AND the flag not being set, in the same sentence...which for a simple user, could be 2 different things.

What I was thinking was, the command we highlight should either:
- not include `--master_addresses` -- and then the messaging above should say just don't provide it
- include `--master_addresses=""` -- and the messaging should say set it to empty string

But moreover, the command should maybe also include something like
```
--fs_data_dirs=<your data directories>
[any other flags you would normally pass to this master process]
```

Author: Pushed change with `--master_addresses=""`

```

2. Add the new YB-Master server into the existing cluster.

To add the new YB-Master server, run the [`yb-admin change_master_config ADD_SERVER`](../../admin/cli/yb-admin/#change-master-config) command.

```sh
./bin/yb-admin -master_addresses M1:7100,M2:7100,M3:7100 change_master_config ADD_SERVER M4 7100
```

3. Remove the old YB-Master server from the cluster.

To remove the failed YB-Master server from the cluster, use the [`yb-admin change_master_config REMOVE_SERVER`](../../admin/yb-admin/#change-master-config`) command.

```sh
./yb-admin -master_addresses M1:7100,M2:7100,M3:7100,M4:7100 change_master_config REMOVE_SERVER M1 7100
```
{{< note title="Note" >}}

> Make sure to specify all YB-Master addresses which will prevent the new YB-Master server from unexpectedly becoming the leader.

Reviewer 2: hmm, the end part of this comment does not make sense...you need to specify M4, not to prevent it from becoming the leader (this command cannot affect that), but instead, to make sure that, if it DID become the leader in the meantime, then yb-admin can find it

Author: Check change here https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/pull/4791/commits/67996cc5a0d936e7b8b6d6fe45aa43b30e5f4933 ?

{{< /note >}}
## Validate cluster

Validate that your set of masters is now `M2`, `M3` and `M4` using:
```bash
yb-admin -master_addresses M2:7100,M3:7100,M4:7100 list_all_masters
```

Until [#1542](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/issues/1542) is implemented, the TS will by default only know of 
whatever masters are encoded in the `--tserver_master_addrs` flag that they are started with. 

If any one of those masters is still part of the active quorum, then they will propagate the new master quorum over via heartbeats. 
If, however, none of the current masters are present in the TS flag, then the TS will not be able to join the cluster! 

So it is important to make sure to update `--tserver_master_addrs` on every TS to the new set of master addresses, `M2:7100,M3:7100,M4:7100`!

{{< note title="Note" >}}
If the master you wish to replace is already dead (eg: VM was terminated), you might want to first do the `REMOVE` step, then do the `ADD` step.

> {{< /note >}}

Reviewer 2: I'm wondering if we should either have this note higher above in the doc, since I'd assume most folks would go through the list in order...

Author: Moved to top

- A new YB-Master server (`M4`) will replace `M1`.
- The default master RPC port is `7100`

> {{< note title="Note" >}}
> If the master you wish to replace is already dead (eg: VM was terminated), you might want to first do the `REMOVE` step, then do the `ADD` step.
> {{< /note >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note title="Note" >}}

If the master to be replaced is already dead (for example, the VM was terminated), perform the `REMOVE` step first, and then the `ADD` step.

{{< /note >}}
```

> ## Start the new (standby) YB-Master server in standby mode. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Start the replacement YB-Master server in standby mode. 
```

To start `yb-master` in standby mode, set the `--master_addresses` flag to an empty string (`""`). When the

>  `--master_addresses` is `""`, this master server starts running without joining any existing master
>   quorum. The node will be added to the master quorum in a later step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 `--master_addresses` is `""`, this master server starts without joining any existing master quorum. The node will be added to the master quorum in a later step.
```

```sh
./bin/yb-master --master_addresses="" --fs_data_dirs=<your data directories> [any other flags you would normally pass
 to this master process]
```

> ## Add the new YB-Master server into the existing cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add the replacement YB-Master server into the existing cluster.
```

To add the new YB-Master server, run the [`yb-admin change_master_config ADD_SERVER`](../../admin/cli/yb-admin/#change-master-config) command.

```sh
./bin/yb-admin -master_addresses M1:7100,M2:7100,M3:7100 change_master_config ADD_SERVER M4 7100
```

> ## Remove the old YB-Master server from the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Remove the failed YB-Master server from the cluster.
```

```
{{< note title="Note" >}}

> Make sure to specify all YB-Master addresses including M4 to make sure that if M4 becomes the leader, then yb-admin can find it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to specify all YB-Master addresses, including M4, to make sure that if M4 becomes the leader, then yb-admin can find it.
```
